
 
 
 
 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Open menu 
 Close menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FourFourTwo   Football news, features, statistics 
 
   
 
 Search 
 
   
 
 
 Search FourFourTwo 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Sign in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 View Profile 
 
 Sign out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 US Edition UK Australia US Canada 대한민국 Türkiye 
 
 
 
 
 promotionFallbackMessage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Quizzes
 
 
 
 
Features
 
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
 
Clubs
 
 
 
 
Subscribe!
 
 
 
 
Newsletter
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 Trending Watch the World Cup final World Cup 2022 Transfer news Buying guides 
 
 When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.  Here’s how it works . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 Features 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FourFourTwo's 100 Greatest Footballers EVER: No.2, Lionel Messi 
 
 
 By  Thore Haugstad  published  28 July 2017   
 
 Aged 30, he’s broken all-time records while lifting a host of personal and club awards – yet it’s only in watching Messi you can appreciate a one-off genius 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 One way to try to express the greatness of Lionel Messi is to list his records and awards: the unrivalled five Ballon d’Ors, the 30 club trophies, the 91 goals in one calendar year, his status as top scorer of Argentina, Barcelona and La Liga. And then conclude that this method is entirely unsatisfactory. The history books will laud Messi, and yet their limitations will do him a disservice. In 20 years, young football fans will read about a messianic figure whose brilliance stunned the world, shattered a litany of records and started an era of dominance – but not until they watch the videos will they get an idea of what they have missed. Beauty and the best The quantity of his goals pale in comparison with their beauty. The goal of the month may not even make his top 20, be it a solo run, a bending free-kick, a cheeky lob, a golf putt finish or a thunderous missile. Messi has the most recorded assists in La Liga’s history, but that fact is less impressive than how they were made: the deft lay-offs, the ingenious killer passes, the deliveries that bend around defenders as if controlled by a remote. In addition, a large portion of his finest passes were squandered, and so have never been quantified at all. Never has Messi, now 30, better balanced playmaking, dribbling and goalscoring By now most know his story: how expensive medicine for a growth hormone deficiency led him from his home town Rosario to Barcelona, where his 2004 debut started an era of brilliance. He has been voted into the world's top three players for 10 years, and in the top two for nine. It’s one thing to reach the top, quite another to stay there. There are fans well into their teens who have never known a world in which Messi is not spellbinding us on a weekly basis. Only by evolution has Messi managed to maintain his level. The livewire dribbler has become a mature playmaker who now dictates play while still proving decisive in the final third. Never has Messi, now 30, better balanced playmaking, dribbling and goalscoring. As Javier Mascherano has said, he is three players in one. You could argue that one of the greatest goalscorers of all time is also the best passer, and you would not lack evidence to support your claim. A decade of Messi The last decade will go down as the Barça of Messi era. As coaches have come and gone, he has been the one constant; four of their five Champions League titles have come in his time. So good has he been that some consider that trophy haul an underachievement. Yet Messi is not finished. A World Cup next year presents another shot at glory with Argentina, and he should still be around for 2022, his legs slower but his mind still sharp. In the meantime, pundits, fans and writers will try to express his greatness with words and metaphors. They will all fail, as will the article you are reading now. The best we can do is listen to Pep Guardiola, who said: “Don’t write about him, don’t try to describe him. Just watch him.” Career highlight Days after criticism of his aerial game, Messi steered a looping header over Edwin van der Sar that sealed Barcelona’s 2-0 win over Manchester United in the 2009 Champions League Final. It's one of his personal favourites, he told FFT recently.  Messi: The header to beat Manchester United in 2009 is still one of my favourite goals What happened when we met Lionel Messi – and let him edit FourFourTwo magazine The list 100 to 91 • 90 to 81 • 80 to 71 • 70 to 61 • 60 to 51 • 50 to 41 • 40 to 31 • 30 to 21 20 •  19  •  18  •  17  •  16  • 15 •  14  •  13  •  12  •  11  •  10  •  9  •  8  •  7  •  6  •  5  •  4  •  3  •  2  •  1 FourFourTwo's 100 Greatest Footballers EVER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for reading 5 articles this month* Join now for unlimited access Enjoy your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 
 
 
 Join now 
 Already have an account ?  Sign in here 
 
 
 *Read 5 free articles per month without a subscription 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join now for unlimited access Try first month for just  £1 / $1 / €1 
 
 
 Join now 
 Already have an account ?  Sign in here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FourFourTwo Newsletter Get the best features, fun and footballing frolics straight to your inbox every week. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the  Terms & Conditions  (opens in new tab)  and  Privacy Policy  (opens in new tab)  and are aged 16 or over. 
 Thore Haugstad Social Links Navigation 
 
 
 
 
 
 Topics 
 
 FFT 100 Greatest 
 
 
 Lionel Messi 
 
 
 Argentina 
 
 
 Barcelona 
 
 
 FFT 100 Greatest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 FourFourTwo Newsletter 
 
 
 
 Get the best features, fun and footballing frolics straight to your inbox every week. 
 
 
 Name:  
 
 Your Email Address : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
 
 
 
 
 
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for signing up to Four Four Two. You will receive a verification email shortly. 
 
 
 There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again. 
 
 
 By submitting your information you agree to the  Terms & Conditions  (opens in new tab)  and  Privacy Policy  (opens in new tab)  and are aged 16 or over. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOST READ 1 Haaland penalty breaks Crystal Palace resistance as Manchester City march on 2 Who is on Match of the Day this weekend and how will it work? 3 Chelsea beat Leicester to win three games in a row for the first time since October 4 Newcastle United v Wolves live stream, match preview, team news and kick-off time for this Premier League match 5 Richarlison's 'sh** season' continues as goal ruled offside by VAR in Tottenham vs Forest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FourFourTwo is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site  (opens in new tab) . 
 
 
 Terms and conditions  (opens in new tab) 
 Privacy policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Cookies policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Accessibility statement 
 Careers  (opens in new tab) 
 About FourFourTwo  (opens in new tab) 
 Advertise with us  (opens in new tab) 
 Worldwide  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.  
 
 
    Begin comScore Tag  
 
  End comScore Tag  
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
  document assets - added by the article itself  
   
 
 
 
  